README.adoc, before:

= jOOQ Codegen Plugin

== Overview

A https://gradle.org[Gradle] plugin for generating https://www.jooq.org/doc/3.11/manual/code-generation/codegen-configuration/[Java sources for jOOQ 3.11+] that works with the https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/kotlin_dsl.html[Gradle Kotlin DSL]

This is a Kotlin port of https://github.com/etiennestuder/gradle-jooq-plugin[gradle-jooq-plugin].

== Using the plugin

The plugin needs to be included in the `build.gradle.kts` file in order to be used.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
plugins {
    id("dev.bombinating.jooq") version "1.0-SNAPSHOT"
}
----

The JDBC driver for introspecting the database is provided in the `dependencies` block using the `jooqRuntime` scope.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
dependencies {
    jooqRuntime(group = "org.postgresql", name = "postgresql", version = "42.2.6")
}
----

In the jOOQ extension block, the version and edition of jOOQ can be specified.
The defaults are shown below.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
import import dev.bombinating.gradle.jooq.JooqEdition.OpenSource
...
jooq {
    version = "3.11.11"
    edition = OpenSource
}
----

Generation configurations are also configured in the `jooq` block by providing a name for the config, along with the source set and the configuration itself, based on the https://www.jooq.org/xsd/jooq-codegen-3.11.0.xsd[jOOQ codegen XSD]

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
import import dev.bombinating.gradle.jooq.JooqEdition.Professional
...
val dbUrl: String? by project
val dbUsername: String? by project
val dbPassword: String? by project
val dbSchema: String? by project
val genDir: String = "$projectDir/generated/src/main/java"
...
jooq {
    edition = Professional
    "oracle"(sourceSets["main"]) {
        jdbc {
            driver = "oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver"
            url = dbUrl
            user = dbUsername
            password = dbPassword
        }
        generator {
            database {
                name = "org.jooq.meta.oracle.OracleDatabase"
                includes = ".*"
                excludes = "^BIN\\$.*|flyway_schema_history"
                inputSchema = dbSchema
            }
            target {
                directory = genDir
                packageName = "com.acme.domain.generated"
            }
        }
        logging = Logging.INFO
    }
}
----

An advantage to using a Kotlin-based plugin is that the generation config is typed and the IDE can provide code completion aid.

Commit message:

Added info about the task naming.

README.adoc, after:

= jOOQ Codegen Plugin

== Overview

A https://gradle.org[Gradle] plugin for generating https://www.jooq.org/doc/3.11/manual/code-generation/codegen-configuration/[Java sources for jOOQ 3.11+] that works with the https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/kotlin_dsl.html[Gradle Kotlin DSL]

This is a Kotlin port of https://github.com/etiennestuder/gradle-jooq-plugin[gradle-jooq-plugin].

== Using the plugin

The plugin needs to be included in the `build.gradle.kts` file in order to be used.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
plugins {
    id("dev.bombinating.jooq") version "1.0-SNAPSHOT"
}
----

The JDBC driver for introspecting the database is provided in the `dependencies` block using the `jooqRuntime` scope.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
dependencies {
    jooqRuntime(group = "org.postgresql", name = "postgresql", version = "42.2.6")
}
----

In the jOOQ extension block, the version and edition of jOOQ can be specified.
The defaults are shown below.

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
import import dev.bombinating.gradle.jooq.JooqEdition.OpenSource
...
jooq {
    version = "3.11.11"
    edition = OpenSource
}
----

Generation configurations are also configured in the `jooq` block by providing a name for the config, along with the source set and the configuration itself, based on the https://www.jooq.org/xsd/jooq-codegen-3.11.0.xsd[jOOQ codegen XSD]

[source,build.gradle.kts]
----
import import dev.bombinating.gradle.jooq.JooqEdition.Professional
...
val dbUrl: String? by project
val dbUsername: String? by project
val dbPassword: String? by project
val dbSchema: String? by project
val genDir: String = "$projectDir/generated/src/main/java"
...
jooq {
    edition = Professional
    "oracle"(sourceSets["main"]) {
        jdbc {
            driver = "oracle.jdbc.driver.OracleDriver"
            url = dbUrl
            user = dbUsername
            password = dbPassword
        }
        generator {
            database {
                name = "org.jooq.meta.oracle.OracleDatabase"
                includes = ".*"
                excludes = "^BIN\\$.*|flyway_schema_history"
                inputSchema = dbSchema
            }
            target {
                directory = genDir
                packageName = "com.acme.domain.generated"
            }
        }
        logging = Logging.INFO
    }
}
----

The name of the task to execute to generate the Java code is `generate<Name>Jooq`. In the example above, the name of the task will be `generateOracleJooq`.

An advantage to using a Kotlin-based plugin is that the generation config is typed and the IDE can provide code completion aid.
